---
layout: post
title: A Feeling of Loneliness (Bikaner)
date: 2015-09-26 09:02:27
description: A solo rider's bittersweet stay in Bikaner, visiting forts and the famous rat temple, while confronting the first pangs of loneliness on the road.
thumbnail: /assets/img/blog/biketrip/bikaner/bikaner-couple.jpg
tags: [lonerider, travel]
categories: travel
---

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/img/blog/biketrip/bikaner/bikaner-fort.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true alt="Junagadh Fort, Bikaner" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/img/blog/biketrip/bikaner/bikaner-rat-temple.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true alt="Karni Mata Temple" %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/img/blog/biketrip/bikaner/bikaner-rat-temple2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true alt="Rats being fed at the Karni Mata Temple" %}
    </div>
</div>

I had a great time at my friend's wedding and at the end of it I was part of the family.
I enjoyed the local delicacies and to top it all the Rajasthani love.
After an awesome stay at Jaisalmer, time was up for a new destination.

As per my original plan I planned to ride back to Jodhpur, Udaipur and reach Gujarat.
Incidentally I met with a Punjabi family at wedding and they invited me to come to their house in Punjab.
I asked them if there was any cultural event/festival in a couple of months?
They mentioned that there is a yatra which happens from their village to Dera Baba Nanak (border).
I instantly said yes to them.
I was quite excited mainly for two reasons: (a) it would be a physical challenge to walk 90km in 3 days (b) an experience of the village life.
Having a flexible timeline always helps you to plan spontaneously.
I decided to go north.

I called my go-to man my Ramesh Mama, who incidentally saw most of India (coolest profession).
He gave me an idea to visit Bikaner which is 280 km from Jaisalmer.
I used to pack my luggage every day and decided to leave, but my hosts did not allow me to.
My plan of staying in Jaisalmer for 3 days turned out to be a week.
I was almost the last one to leave.

One fine day, I planned to start at 10 am but it got postponed to 12:30 am, as my aunt insisted me to have lunch.
I packed all my luggage on the bike (I tied it in a different way this time), wore my gear and set on the journey to Bikaner.
After filling up the petrol, I left the city at 1:00 am. I knew it was quite late.
I had a long journey ahead and I hated to drive at night.
I called up my first couchsurfing host and informed him that I started from Jaisalmer.

The highway from Jaisalmer to Pokhran was really nice, so I was cruising at 100km/hr.
Suddenly, I hear a sound and I realised I had more place to sit than usual. I slowed down my vehicle and saw that my luggage was dangling behind my bike (thanks to the bungee cords).
I stopped my vehicle in the side and readjusted my luggage to the usual setting.
After an interesting episode earlier, I decided that I would not eat outside during my journey.
I finished the leg of 280 km in just 5 hrs with 2 breaks on tea, biscuits and water.

I met my host and realised that the couch wasn't free that night :(.
As their couch was an independent guest house, they could accommodate me.
There was a Punjabi group who were staying there for a couple of days.
I met Sukh and Balkar who were riding a bullet across India.
They were heading to Jaisalmer in the next morning and I shared my lovely experiences from there.
We shared a lot of interesting stories having tea and biscuits.
I lost track of time and I realised that I wouldn't get any food that night as it was really late.
Sukh told me that they had prepared some paneer curry and told me that I could have it.
I rushed to the kitchen and served myself the tasty food.
I thanked them for the lovely dinner and went to sleep in my cosy sleeping bag.

<div style="float: left; max-width: 35%; margin: 0 1.5rem 1rem 0;">
    {% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="/assets/img/blog/biketrip/bikaner/bikaner-couple.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true alt="Balkar with a Punjabi adventure lady Sukh" caption="Balkar with a Punjabi adventure lady Sukh" %}
</div>

The next morning Sukh and Balkar were leaving and they woke me up to say good-bye.
I took a farewell photograph of them and went to bed :).
I decided that I would relax for the day because of the hectic journey I had the day before.
The main reason to rest was India vs South Africa world cup match.
I was quite lucky that the couch had both internet and TV.
I prepared myself a nice lunch and watched the cricket match.
After successfully cheering India to a win, I decided to go to the Junagadh fort.
The fort is a typical Rajasthani style one, but the history is quite interesting.
After hearing the stories, I added Rajasthani Kings to my todo list to read.
Right outside the fort I had a lovely masala dosa at a roadside stall (being a typical south indian).
I bought some fruits and went back to the room.

<div style="clear: both;"></div>

Bikaner is quite popular for the 'Karni Mata Temple' (rat temple).
The punjabi couple mentioned to me that it was a bit hyped.
Being an atheist I am not really into temples but I am interested in understanding people believing in it.
Especially, how can a rat temple be such a big thing considering rats are one of the top disease carrying rodents.
I always wondered a rat which we would like to kill if it is in our house, how could people worship them in a temple?
So I set on a journey to see by myself how would a rat temple actually look like.
When I told my grandmother about my visit, she was really happy that I was visiting a temple and she wanted me to feed the white rat.
It is said that if you get to feed the white rat your wish would come true.


I rode roughly 40km from Bikaner and as soon as I entered, I saw rats running and jumping all over the place. I just couldn't bear the smell of rats and rats climbing on foot is disgusting too. I quickly took some pictures and got out of the temple. I was like no white rat, I am just going out of it. I felt disappointed, as I drove 2 hrs to reach this place in scorching heat and I didn't spend more than 10 mins. After reaching Bikaner, I decided to do something worthwhile, so I planned to go to the Jain temple as suggested by the Punjabi group. I managed to reach a Jain temple only to see that it wasn't the right one. So I searched for another closest point that people suggested me but landed up in a completely different part of the city. Finally after hours of riding the bike through the gullies of Bikaner I reached the right Jain temple. The view from the temple was awesome but the temple was closed on that day :(.

I had a horrible day; it was a feeling where you have tried everything but nothing works out. It was seriously a bad feeling for a traveller. The first time in this journey, I actually felt bad for being alone. I knew it was bound to happen for a solo traveller, but I didn't expect it would happen so early in my journey. These are some moments in life one must embrace. I called up my friends and family and spoke to them about my feeling. I usually try to get out of it by pampering myself. I checked for a place to get a Hyderabadi biryani and spent 500 bucks in a costly restaurant in front of the Junagadh fort.

I realised time was up for my next destination i.e. Jaipur.
